CHANGES WITH 197:

        * Timer units now support calendar time events in addition to
          monotonic time events. That means you can now trigger a unit
          based on a calendar time specification such as "Thu,Fri
          2013-*-1,5 11:12:13" which refers to 11:12:13 of the first
          or fifth day of any month of the year 2013, given that it is
          a Thursday or a Friday. This brings timer event support
          considerably closer to cron's capabilities. For details on
          the supported calendar time specification language see
          systemd.time(7).

        * udev now supports a number of different naming policies for
          network interfaces for predictable names, and a combination
          of these policies is now the default. Please see this wiki
          document for details:

          https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.net-naming-scheme.html

        * Auke Kok's bootchart implementation has been added to the
          systemd tree. It is an optional component that can graph the
          boot in quite some detail. It is one of the best bootchart
          implementations around and minimal in its code and
          dependencies.

        * nss-myhostname has been integrated into the systemd source
          tree. nss-myhostname guarantees that the local hostname
          always stays resolvable via NSS. It has been a weak
          requirement of systemd-hostnamed since a long time, and
          since its code is actually trivial we decided to just
          include it in systemd's source tree. It can be turned off
          with a configure switch.

        * The read-ahead logic is now capable of properly detecting
          whether a btrfs file system is on SSD or rotating media, in
          order to optimize the read-ahead scheme. Previously, it was
          only capable of detecting this on traditional file systems
          such as ext4.

        * In udev, additional device properties are now read from the
          IAB in addition to the OUI database. Also, Bluetooth company
          identities are attached to the devices as well.

        * In service files %U may be used as specifier that is
          replaced by the configured user name of the service.

        * nspawn may now be invoked without a controlling TTY. This
          makes it suitable for invocation as its own service. This
          may be used to set up a simple containerized server system
          using only core OS tools.

        * systemd and nspawn can now accept socket file descriptors
          when they are started for socket activation. This enables
          implementation of socket activated nspawn
          containers. i.e. think about autospawning an entire OS image
          when the first SSH or HTTP connection is received. We expect
          that similar functionality will also be added to libvirt-lxc
          eventually.

        * journalctl will now suppress ANSI color codes when
          presenting log data.

        * systemctl will no longer show control group information for
          a unit if the control group is empty anyway.

        * logind can now automatically suspend/hibernate/shutdown the
          system on idle.

        * /etc/machine-info and hostnamed now also expose the chassis
          type of the system. This can be used to determine whether
          the local system is a laptop, desktop, handset or
          tablet. This information may either be configured by the
          user/vendor or is automatically determined from ACPI and DMI
          information if possible.

        * A number of polkit actions are now bound together with "imply"
          rules. This should simplify creating UIs because many actions
          will now authenticate similar ones as well.

        * Unit files learnt a new condition ConditionACPower= which
          may be used to conditionalize a unit depending on whether an
          AC power source is connected or not, of whether the system
          is running on battery power.

        * systemctl gained a new "is-failed" verb that may be used in
          shell scripts and suchlike to check whether a specific unit
          is in the "failed" state.

        * The EnvironmentFile= setting in unit files now supports file
          globbing, and can hence be used to easily read a number of
          environment files at once.

        * systemd will no longer detect and recognize specific
          distributions. All distribution-specific #ifdeffery has been
          removed, systemd is now fully generic and
          distribution-agnostic. Effectively, not too much is lost as
          a lot of the code is still accessible via explicit configure
          switches. However, support for some distribution specific
          legacy configuration file formats has been dropped. We
          recommend distributions to simply adopt the configuration
          files everybody else uses now and convert the old
          configuration from packaging scripts. Most distributions
          already did that. If that's not possible or desirable,
          distributions are welcome to forward port the specific
          pieces of code locally from the git history.

        * When logging a message about a unit systemd will now always
          log the unit name in the message meta data.

        * localectl will now also discover system locale data that is
          not stored in locale archives, but directly unpacked.

        * logind will no longer unconditionally use framebuffer
          devices as seat masters, i.e. as devices that are required
          to be existing before a seat is considered preset. Instead,
          it will now look for all devices that are tagged as
          "seat-master" in udev. By default, framebuffer devices will
          be marked as such, but depending on local systems, other
          devices might be marked as well. This may be used to
          integrate graphics cards using closed source drivers (such
          as NVidia ones) more nicely into logind. Note however, that
          we recommend using the open source NVidia drivers instead,
          and no udev rules for the closed-source drivers will be
          shipped from us upstream.

        Contributions from: Adam Williamson, Alessandro Crismani, Auke
        Kok, Colin Walters, Daniel Wallace, Dave Reisner, David
        Herrmann, David Strauss, Dimitrios Apostolou, Eelco Dolstra,
        Eric Benoit, Giovanni Campagna, Hannes Reinecke, Henrik
        Grindal Bakken, Hermann Gausterer, Kay Sievers, Lennart
        Poettering, Lukas Nykryn, Mantas Mikulėnas, Marcel Holtmann,
        Martin Pitt, Matthew Monaco, Michael Biebl, Michael Terry,
        Michal Schmidt, Michal Sekletar, Michał Bartoszkiewicz, Oleg
        Samarin, Pekka Lundstrom, Philip Nilsson, Ramkumar
        Ramachandra, Richard Yao, Robert Millan, Sami Kerola, Shawn
        Landden, Thomas Hindoe Paaboel Andersen, Thomas Jarosch,
        Tollef Fog Heen, Tom Gundersen, Umut Tezduyar, Zbigniew
        Jędrzejewski-Szmek

