CHANGES WITH 225:

        * machinectl gained a new verb 'shell' which opens a fresh
          shell on the target container or the host. It is similar to
          the existing 'login' command of machinectl, but spawns the
          shell directly without prompting for username or
          password. The pseudo machine '.host' now refers to the local
          host and is used by default. Hence, 'machinectl shell' can
          be used as replacement for 'su -' which spawns a session as
          a fresh systemd unit in a way that is fully isolated from
          the originating session.

        * systemd-networkd learned to cope with private-zone DHCP
          options and allows other programs to query the values.

        * SELinux access control when enabling/disabling units is no
          longer enforced with this release. The previous implementation
          was incorrect, and a new corrected implementation is not yet
          available. As unit file operations are still protected via
          polkit and D-Bus policy this is not a security problem. Yet,
          distributions which care about optimal SELinux support should
          probably not stabilize on this release.

        * sd-bus gained support for matches of type "arg0has=", that
          test for membership of strings in string arrays sent in bus
          messages.

        * systemd-resolved now dumps the contents of its DNS and LLMNR
          caches to the logs on reception of the SIGUSR1 signal. This
          is useful to debug DNS behaviour.

        * The coredumpctl tool gained a new --directory= option to
          operate on journal files in a specific directory.

        * "systemctl reboot" and related commands gained a new
          "--message=" option which may be used to set a free-text
          wall message when shutting down or rebooting the
          system. This message is also logged, which is useful for
          figuring out the reason for a reboot or shutdown a
          posteriori.

        * The "systemd-resolve-host" tool's -i switch now takes
          network interface numbers as alternative to interface names.

        * A new unit file setting for services has been introduced:
          UtmpMode= allows configuration of how precisely systemd
          handles utmp and wtmp entries for the service if this is
          enabled. This allows writing services that appear similar to
          user sessions in the output of the "w", "who", "last" and
          "lastlog" tools.

        * systemd-resolved will now locally synthesize DNS resource
          records for the "localhost" and "gateway" domains as well as
          the local hostname. This should ensure that clients querying
          RRs via resolved will get similar results as those going via
          NSS, if nss-myhostname is enabled.

        Contributions from: Alastair Hughes, Alex Crawford, Daniel
        Mack, David Herrmann, Dimitri John Ledkov, Eric Kostrowski,
        Evgeny Vereshchagin, Felipe Sateler, HATAYAMA Daisuke, Jan
        Pokorný, Jan Synacek, Johnny Robeson, Karel Zak, Kay Sievers,
        Kefeng Wang, Lennart Poettering, Major Hayden, Marcel
        Holtmann, Markus Elfring, Martin Mikkelsen, Martin Pitt, Matt
        Turner, Maxim Mikityanskiy, Michael Biebl, Namhyung Kim,
        Nicolas Cornu, Owen W. Taylor, Patrik Flykt, Peter Hutterer,
        reverendhomer, Richard Maw, Ronny Chevalier, Seth Jennings,
        Stef Walter, Susant Sahani, Thomas Blume, Thomas Hindoe
        Paaboel Andersen, Thomas Meyer, Tom Gundersen, Vincent Batts,
        WaLyong Cho, Zbigniew Jędrzejewski-Szmek

        — Berlin, 2015-08-27

