CHANGES WITH 210:

        * systemd will now relabel /dev after loading the SMACK policy
          according to SMACK rules.

        * A new unit file option AppArmorProfile= has been added to
          set the AppArmor profile for the processes of a unit.

        * A new condition check ConditionArchitecture= has been added
          to conditionalize units based on the system architecture, as
          reported by uname()'s "machine" field.

        * systemd-networkd now supports matching on the system
          virtualization, architecture, kernel command line, hostname
          and machine ID.

        * logind is now a lot more aggressive when suspending the
          machine due to a closed laptop lid. Instead of acting only
          on the lid close action, it will continuously watch the lid
          status and act on it. This is useful for laptops where the
          power button is on the outside of the chassis so that it can
          be reached without opening the lid (such as the Lenovo
          Yoga). On those machines, logind will now immediately
          re-suspend the machine if the power button has been
          accidentally pressed while the laptop was suspended and in a
          backpack or similar.

        * logind will now watch SW_DOCK switches and inhibit reaction
          to the lid switch if it is pressed. This means that logind
          will not suspend the machine anymore if the lid is closed
          and the system is docked, if the laptop supports SW_DOCK
          notifications via the input layer. Note that ACPI docking
          stations do not generate this currently. Also note that this
          logic is usually not fully sufficient and Desktop
          Environments should take a lid switch inhibitor lock when an
          external display is connected, as systemd will not watch
          this on its own.

        * nspawn will now make use of the devices cgroup controller by
          default, and only permit creation of and access to the usual
          API device nodes like /dev/null or /dev/random, as well as
          access to (but not creation of) the pty devices.

        * We will now ship a default .network file for
          systemd-networkd that automatically configures DHCP for
          network interfaces created by nspawn's --network-veth or
          --network-bridge= switches.

        * systemd will now understand the usual M, K, G, T suffixes
          according to SI conventions (i.e. to the base 1000) when
          referring to throughput and hardware metrics. It will stay
          with IEC conventions (i.e. to the base 1024) for software
          metrics, according to what is customary according to
          Wikipedia. We explicitly document which base applies for
          each configuration option.

        * The DeviceAllow= setting in unit files now supports a syntax to
          allow-list an entire group of devices node majors at once, based on
          the /proc/devices listing. For example, with the string "char-pts",
          it is now possible to allow-list all current and future pseudo-TTYs
          at once.

        * sd-event learned a new "post" event source. Event sources of
          this type are triggered by the dispatching of any event
          source of a type that is not "post". This is useful for
          implementing clean-up and check event sources that are
          triggered by other work being done in the program.

        * systemd-networkd is no longer statically enabled, but uses
          the usual [Install] sections so that it can be
          enabled/disabled using systemctl. It still is enabled by
          default however.

        * When creating a veth interface pair with systemd-nspawn, the
          host side will now be prefixed with "vb-" if
          --network-bridge= is used, and with "ve-" if --network-veth
          is used. This way, it is easy to distinguish these cases on
          the host, for example to apply different configuration to
          them with systemd-networkd.

        * The compatibility libraries for libsystemd-journal.so,
          libsystem-id128.so, libsystemd-login.so and
          libsystemd-daemon.so do not make use of IFUNC
          anymore. Instead, we now build libsystemd.so multiple times
          under these alternative names. This means that the footprint
          is drastically increased, but given that these are
          transitional compatibility libraries, this should not matter
          much. This change has been made necessary to support the ARM
          platform for these compatibility libraries, as the ARM
          toolchain is not really at the same level as the toolchain
          for other architectures like x86 and does not support
          IFUNC. Please make sure to use --enable-compat-libs only
          during a transitional period!

        * The .include syntax has been deprecated and is not documented
          anymore. Drop-in files in .d directories should be used instead.

        Contributions from: Andreas Fuchs, Armin K., Colin Walters,
        Daniel Mack, Dave Reisner, David Herrmann, Djalal Harouni,
        Holger Schurig, Jason A. Donenfeld, Jason St. John, Jasper
        St. Pierre, Kay Sievers, Lennart Poettering, Łukasz Stelmach,
        Marcel Holtmann, Michael Scherer, Michal Sekletar, Mike
        Gilbert, Samuli Suominen, Thomas Bächler, Thomas Hindoe
        Paaboel Andersen, Tom Gundersen, Umut Tezduyar Lindskog,
        Zbigniew Jędrzejewski-Szmek

        — Berlin, 2014-02-24

