CHANGES WITH 206:

        * The documentation has been updated to cover the various new
          concepts introduced with 205.

        * Unit files now understand the new %v specifier which
          resolves to the kernel version string as returned by "uname
          -r".

        * systemctl now supports filtering the unit list output by
          load state, active state and sub state, using the new
          --state= parameter.

        * "systemctl status" will now show the results of the
          condition checks (like ConditionPathExists= and similar) of
          the last start attempts of the unit. They are also logged to
          the journal.

        * "journalctl -b" may now be used to look for boot output of a
          specific boot. Try "journalctl -b -1" for the previous boot,
          but the syntax is substantially more powerful.

        * "journalctl --show-cursor" has been added which prints the
          cursor string the last shown log line. This may then be used
          with the new "journalctl --after-cursor=" switch to continue
          browsing logs from that point on.

        * "journalctl --force" may now be used to force regeneration
          of an FSS key.

        * Creation of "dead" device nodes has been moved from udev
          into kmod and tmpfiles. Previously, udev would read the kmod
          databases to pre-generate dead device nodes based on meta
          information contained in kernel modules, so that these would
          be auto-loaded on access rather then at boot. As this
          does not really have much to do with the exposing actual
          kernel devices to userspace this has always been slightly
          alien in the udev codebase. Following the new scheme kmod
          will now generate a runtime snippet for tmpfiles from the
          module meta information and it now is tmpfiles' job to the
          create the nodes. This also allows overriding access and
          other parameters for the nodes using the usual tmpfiles
          facilities. As side effect this allows us to remove the
          CAP_SYS_MKNOD capability bit from udevd entirely.

        * logind's device ACLs may now be applied to these "dead"
          devices nodes too, thus finally allowing managed access to
          devices such as /dev/snd/sequencer without loading the
          backing module right-away.

        * A new RPM macro has been added that may be used to apply
          tmpfiles configuration during package installation.

        * systemd-detect-virt and ConditionVirtualization= now can
          detect User-Mode-Linux machines (UML).

        * journald will now implicitly log the effective capabilities
          set of processes in the message metadata.

        * systemd-cryptsetup has gained support for TrueCrypt volumes.

        * The initrd interface has been simplified (more specifically,
          support for passing performance data via environment
          variables and fsck results via files in /run has been
          removed). These features were non-essential, and are
          nowadays available in a much nicer way by having systemd in
          the initrd serialize its state and have the hosts systemd
          deserialize it again.

        * The udev "keymap" data files and tools to apply keyboard
          specific mappings of scan to key codes, and force-release
          scan code lists have been entirely replaced by a udev
          "keyboard" builtin and a hwdb data file.

        * systemd will now honour the kernel's "quiet" command line
          argument also during late shutdown, resulting in a
          completely silent shutdown when used.

        * There's now an option to control the SO_REUSEPORT socket
          option in .socket units.

        * Instance units will now automatically get a per-template
          subslice of system.slice unless something else is explicitly
          configured. For example, instances of sshd@.service will now
          implicitly be placed in system-sshd.slice rather than
          system.slice as before.

        * Test coverage support may now be enabled at build time.

        Contributions from: Dave Reisner, Frederic Crozat, Harald
        Hoyer, Holger Hans Peter Freyther, Jan Engelhardt, Jan
        Janssen, Jason St. John, Jesper Larsen, Kay Sievers, Lennart
        Poettering, Lukas Nykryn, Maciej Wereski, Martin Pitt, Michael
        Olbrich, Ramkumar Ramachandra, Ross Lagerwall, Shawn Landden,
        Thomas H.P. Andersen, Tom Gundersen, Tomasz Torcz, William
        Giokas, Zbigniew Jędrzejewski-Szmek

        — Berlin, 2013-07-23

