CHANGES WITH 216:

        * timedated no longer reads NTP implementation unit names from
          /usr/lib/systemd/ntp-units.d/*.list. Alternative NTP
          implementations should add a

            Conflicts=systemd-timesyncd.service

          to their unit files to take over and replace systemd's NTP
          default functionality.

        * systemd-sysusers gained a new line type "r" for configuring
          which UID/GID ranges to allocate system users/groups
          from. Lines of type "u" may now add an additional column
          that specifies the home directory for the system user to be
          created. Also, systemd-sysusers may now optionally read user
          information from STDIN instead of a file. This is useful for
          invoking it from RPM preinst scriptlets that need to create
          users before the first RPM file is installed since these
          files might need to be owned by them. A new
          %sysusers_create_inline RPM macro has been introduced to do
          just that. systemd-sysusers now updates the shadow files as
          well as the user/group databases, which should enhance
          compatibility with certain tools like grpck.

        * A number of bus APIs of PID 1 now optionally consult polkit to
          permit access for otherwise unprivileged clients under certain
          conditions. Note that this currently doesn't support
          interactive authentication yet, but this is expected to be
          added eventually, too.

        * /etc/machine-info now has new fields for configuring the
          deployment environment of the machine, as well as the
          location of the machine. hostnamectl has been updated with
          new command to update these fields.

        * systemd-timesyncd has been updated to automatically acquire
          NTP server information from systemd-networkd, which might
          have been discovered via DHCP.

        * systemd-resolved now includes a caching DNS stub resolver
          and a complete LLMNR name resolution implementation. A new
          NSS module "nss-resolve" has been added which can be used
          instead of glibc's own "nss-dns" to resolve hostnames via
          systemd-resolved. Hostnames, addresses and arbitrary RRs may
          be resolved via systemd-resolved D-Bus APIs. In contrast to
          the glibc internal resolver systemd-resolved is aware of
          multi-homed system, and keeps DNS server and caches separate
          and per-interface. Queries are sent simultaneously on all
          interfaces that have DNS servers configured, in order to
          properly handle VPNs and local LANs which might resolve
          separate sets of domain names. systemd-resolved may acquire
          DNS server information from systemd-networkd automatically,
          which in turn might have discovered them via DHCP. A tool
          "systemd-resolve-host" has been added that may be used to
          query the DNS logic in resolved. systemd-resolved implements
          IDNA and automatically uses IDNA or UTF-8 encoding depending
          on whether classic DNS or LLMNR is used as transport. In the
          next releases we intend to add a DNSSEC and mDNS/DNS-SD
          implementation to systemd-resolved.

        * A new NSS module nss-mymachines has been added, that
          automatically resolves the names of all local registered
          containers to their respective IP addresses.

        * A new client tool "networkctl" for systemd-networkd has been
          added. It currently is entirely passive and will query
          networking configuration from udev, rtnetlink and networkd,
          and present it to the user in a very friendly
          way. Eventually, we hope to extend it to become a full
          control utility for networkd.

        * .socket units gained a new DeferAcceptSec= setting that
          controls the kernels' TCP_DEFER_ACCEPT sockopt for
          TCP. Similarly, support for controlling TCP keep-alive
          settings has been added (KeepAliveTimeSec=,
          KeepAliveIntervalSec=, KeepAliveProbes=). Also, support for
          turning off Nagle's algorithm on TCP has been added
          (NoDelay=).

        * logind learned a new session type "web", for use in projects
          like Cockpit which register web clients as PAM sessions.

        * timer units with at least one OnCalendar= setting will now
          be started only after time-sync.target has been
          reached. This way they will not elapse before the system
          clock has been corrected by a local NTP client or
          similar. This is particular useful on RTC-less embedded
          machines, that come up with an invalid system clock.

        * systemd-nspawn's --network-veth= switch should now result in
          stable MAC addresses for both the outer and the inner side
          of the link.

        * systemd-nspawn gained a new --volatile= switch for running
          container instances with /etc or /var unpopulated.

        * The kdbus client code has been updated to use the new Linux
          3.17 memfd subsystem instead of the old kdbus-specific one.

        * systemd-networkd's DHCP client and server now support
          FORCERENEW. There are also new configuration options to
          configure the vendor client identifier and broadcast mode
          for DHCP.

        * systemd will no longer inform the kernel about the current
          timezone, as this is necessarily incorrect and racy as the
          kernel has no understanding of DST and similar
          concepts. This hence means FAT timestamps will be always
          considered UTC, similar to what Android is already
          doing. Also, when the RTC is configured to the local time
          (rather than UTC) systemd will never synchronize back to it,
          as this might confuse Windows at a later boot.

        * systemd-analyze gained a new command "verify" for offline
          validation of unit files.

        * systemd-networkd gained support for a couple of additional
          settings for bonding networking setups. Also, the metric for
          statically configured routes may now be configured. For
          network interfaces where this is appropriate the peer IP
          address may now be configured.

        * systemd-networkd's DHCP client will no longer request
          broadcasting by default, as this tripped up some networks.
          For hardware where broadcast is required the feature should
          be switched back on using RequestBroadcast=yes.

        * systemd-networkd will now set up IPv4LL addresses (when
          enabled) even if DHCP is configured successfully.

        * udev will now default to respect network device names given
          by the kernel when the kernel indicates that these are
          predictable. This behavior can be tweaked by changing
          NamePolicy= in the relevant .link file.

        * A new library systemd-terminal has been added that
          implements full TTY stream parsing and rendering. This
          library is supposed to be used later on for implementing a
          full userspace VT subsystem, replacing the current kernel
          implementation.

        * A new tool systemd-journal-upload has been added to push
          journal data to a remote system running
          systemd-journal-remote.

        * journald will no longer forward all local data to another
          running syslog daemon. This change has been made because
          rsyslog (which appears to be the most commonly used syslog
          implementation these days) no longer makes use of this, and
          instead pulls the data out of the journal on its own. Since
          forwarding the messages to a non-existent syslog server is
          more expensive than we assumed we have now turned this
          off. If you run a syslog server that is not a recent rsyslog
          version, you have to turn this option on again
          (ForwardToSyslog= in journald.conf).

        * journald now optionally supports the LZ4 compressor for
          larger journal fields. This compressor should perform much
          better than XZ which was the previous default.

        * machinectl now shows the IP addresses of local containers,
          if it knows them, plus the interface name of the container.

        * A new tool "systemd-escape" has been added that makes it
          easy to escape strings to build unit names and similar.

        * sd_notify() messages may now include a new ERRNO= field
          which is parsed and collected by systemd and shown among the
          "systemctl status" output for a service.

        * A new component "systemd-firstboot" has been added that
          queries the most basic systemd information (timezone,
          hostname, root password) interactively on first
          boot. Alternatively it may also be used to provision these
          things offline on OS images installed into directories.

        * The default sysctl.d/ snippets will now set

                net.ipv4.conf.default.promote_secondaries=1

          This has the benefit of no flushing secondary IP addresses
          when primary addresses are removed.

        Contributions from: Ansgar Burchardt, Bastien Nocera, Colin
        Walters, Dan Dedrick, Daniel Buch, Daniel Korostil, Daniel
        Mack, Dan Williams, Dave Reisner, David Herrmann, Denis
        Kenzior, Eelco Dolstra, Eric Cook, Hannes Reinecke, Harald
        Hoyer, Hong Shick Pak, Hui Wang, Jean-André Santoni, Jóhann
        B. Guðmundsson, Jon Severinsson, Karel Zak, Kay Sievers, Kevin
        Wells, Lennart Poettering, Lukas Nykryn, Mantas Mikulėnas,
        Marc-Antoine Perennou, Martin Pitt, Michael Biebl, Michael
        Marineau, Michael Olbrich, Michal Schmidt, Michal Sekletar,
        Miguel Angel Ajo, Mike Gilbert, Olivier Brunel, Robert
        Schiele, Ronny Chevalier, Simon McVittie, Sjoerd Simons, Stef
        Walter, Steven Noonan, Susant Sahani, Tanu Kaskinen, Thomas
        Blume, Thomas Hindoe Paaboel Andersen, Timofey Titovets,
        Tobias Geerinckx-Rice, Tomasz Torcz, Tom Gundersen, Umut
        Tezduyar Lindskog, Zbigniew Jędrzejewski-Szmek

        — Berlin, 2014-08-19

