CHANGES WITH 196:

        * udev gained support for loading additional device properties
          from an indexed database that is keyed by vendor/product IDs
          and similar device identifiers. For the beginning this
          "hwdb" is populated with data from the well-known PCI and
          USB database, but also includes PNP, ACPI and OID data. In
          the longer run this indexed database shall grow into
          becoming the one central database for non-essential
          userspace device metadata. Previously, data from the PCI/USB
          database was only attached to select devices, since the
          lookup was a relatively expensive operation due to O(n) time
          complexity (with n being the number of entries in the
          database). Since this is now O(1), we decided to add in this
          data for all devices where this is available, by
          default. Note that the indexed database needs to be rebuilt
          when new data files are installed. To achieve this you need
          to update your packaging scripts to invoke "udevadm hwdb
          --update" after installation of hwdb data files. For
          RPM-based distributions we introduced the new
          %udev_hwdb_update macro for this purpose.

        * The Journal gained support for the "Message Catalog", an
          indexed database to link up additional information with
          journal entries. For further details please check:

          https://systemd.io/CATALOG

          The indexed message catalog database also needs to be
          rebuilt after installation of message catalog files. Use
          "journalctl --update-catalog" for this. For RPM-based
          distributions we introduced the %journal_catalog_update
          macro for this purpose.

        * The Python Journal bindings gained support for the standard
          Python logging framework.

        * The Journal API gained new functions for checking whether
          the underlying file system of a journal file is capable of
          properly reporting file change notifications, or whether
          applications that want to reflect journal changes "live"
          need to recheck journal files continuously in appropriate
          time intervals.

        * It is now possible to set the "age" field for tmpfiles
          entries to 0, indicating that files matching this entry
          shall always be removed when the directories are cleaned up.

        * coredumpctl gained a new "gdb" verb which invokes gdb
          right-away on the selected coredump.

        * There's now support for "hybrid sleep" on kernels that
          support this, in addition to "suspend" and "hibernate". Use
          "systemctl hybrid-sleep" to make use of this.

        * logind's HandleSuspendKey= setting (and related settings)
          now gained support for a new "lock" setting to simply
          request the screen lock on all local sessions, instead of
          actually executing a suspend or hibernation.

        * systemd will now mount the EFI variables file system by
          default.

        * Socket units now gained support for configuration of the
          SMACK security label.

        * timedatectl will now output the time of the last and next
          daylight saving change.

        * We dropped support for various legacy and distro-specific
          concepts, such as insserv, early-boot SysV services
          (i.e. those for non-standard runlevels such as 'b' or 'S')
          or ArchLinux /etc/rc.conf support. We recommend the
          distributions who still need support this to either continue
          to maintain the necessary patches downstream, or find a
          different solution. (Talk to us if you have questions!)

        * Various systemd components will now bypass polkit checks for
          root and otherwise handle properly if polkit is not found to
          be around. This should fix most issues for polkit-less
          systems. Quite frankly this should have been this way since
          day one. It is absolutely our intention to make systemd work
          fine on polkit-less systems, and we consider it a bug if
          something does not work as it should if polkit is not around.

        * For embedded systems it is now possible to build udev and
          systemd without blkid and/or kmod support.

        * "systemctl switch-root" is now capable of switching root
          more than once. I.e. in addition to transitions from the
          initrd to the host OS it is now possible to transition to
          further OS images from the host. This is useful to implement
          offline updating tools.

        * Various other additions have been made to the RPM macros
          shipped with systemd. Use %udev_rules_update() after
          installing new udev rules files. %_udevhwdbdir,
          %_udevrulesdir, %_journalcatalogdir, %_tmpfilesdir,
          %_sysctldir are now available which resolve to the right
          directories for packages to place various data files in.

        * journalctl gained the new --full switch (in addition to
          --all, to disable ellipsation for long messages.

        Contributions from: Anders Olofsson, Auke Kok, Ben Boeckel,
        Colin Walters, Cosimo Cecchi, Daniel Wallace, Dave Reisner,
        Eelco Dolstra, Holger Hans Peter Freyther, Kay Sievers,
        Chun-Yi Lee, Lekensteyn, Lennart Poettering, Mantas Mikulėnas,
        Marti Raudsepp, Martin Pitt, Mauro Dreissig, Michael Biebl,
        Michal Schmidt, Michal Sekletar, Miklos Vajna, Nis Martensen,
        Oleksii Shevchuk, Olivier Brunel, Ramkumar Ramachandra, Thomas
        Bächler, Thomas Hindoe Paaboel Andersen, Tom Gundersen, Tony
        Camuso, Umut Tezduyar, Zbigniew Jędrzejewski-Szmek

