CHANGES WITH 219:

        * Introduce a new API "sd-hwdb.h" for querying the hardware
          metadata database. With this minimal interface one can query
          and enumerate the udev hwdb, decoupled from the old libudev
          library. libudev's interface for this is now only a wrapper
          around sd-hwdb. A new tool systemd-hwdb has been added to
          interface with and update the database.

        * When any of systemd's tools copies files (for example due to
          tmpfiles' C lines) a btrfs reflink will attempted first,
          before bytewise copying is done.

        * systemd-nspawn gained a new --ephemeral switch. When
          specified a btrfs snapshot is taken of the container's root
          directory, and immediately removed when the container
          terminates again. Thus, a container can be started whose
          changes never alter the container's root directory, and are
          lost on container termination. This switch can also be used
          for starting a container off the root file system of the
          host without affecting the host OS. This switch is only
          available on btrfs file systems.

        * systemd-nspawn gained a new --template= switch. It takes the
          path to a container tree to use as template for the tree
          specified via --directory=, should that directory be
          missing. This allows instantiating containers dynamically,
          on first run. This switch is only available on btrfs file
          systems.

        * When a .mount unit refers to a mount point on which multiple
          mounts are stacked, and the .mount unit is stopped all of
          the stacked mount points will now be unmounted until no
          mount point remains.

        * systemd now has an explicit notion of supported and
          unsupported unit types. Jobs enqueued for unsupported unit
          types will now fail with an "unsupported" error code. More
          specifically .swap, .automount and .device units are not
          supported in containers, .busname units are not supported on
          non-kdbus systems. .swap and .automount are also not
          supported if their respective kernel compile time options
          are disabled.

        * machinectl gained support for two new "copy-from" and
          "copy-to" commands for copying files from a running
          container to the host or vice versa.

        * machinectl gained support for a new "bind" command to bind
          mount host directories into local containers. This is
          currently only supported for nspawn containers.

        * networkd gained support for configuring bridge forwarding
          database entries (fdb) from .network files.

        * A new tiny daemon "systemd-importd" has been added that can
          download container images in tar, raw, qcow2 or dkr formats,
          and make them available locally in /var/lib/machines, so
          that they can run as nspawn containers. The daemon can GPG
          verify the downloads (not supported for dkr, since it has no
          provisions for verifying downloads). It will transparently
          decompress bz2, xz, gzip compressed downloads if necessary,
          and restore sparse files on disk. The daemon uses privilege
          separation to ensure the actual download logic runs with
          fewer privileges than the daemon itself. machinectl has
          gained new commands "pull-tar", "pull-raw" and "pull-dkr" to
          make the functionality of importd available to the
          user. With this in place the Fedora and Ubuntu "Cloud"
          images can be downloaded and booted as containers unmodified
          (the Fedora images lack the appropriate GPG signature files
          currently, so they cannot be verified, but this will change
          soon, hopefully). Note that downloading images is currently
          only fully supported on btrfs.

        * machinectl is now able to list container images found in
          /var/lib/machines, along with some metadata about sizes of
          disk and similar. If the directory is located on btrfs and
          quota is enabled, this includes quota display. A new command
          "image-status" has been added that shows additional
          information about images.

        * machinectl is now able to clone container images
          efficiently, if the underlying file system (btrfs) supports
          it, with the new "machinectl clone" command. It also
          gained commands for renaming and removing images, as well as
          marking them read-only or read-write (supported also on
          legacy file systems).

        * networkd gained support for collecting LLDP network
          announcements, from hardware that supports this. This is
          shown in networkctl output.

        * systemd-run gained support for a new -t (--pty) switch for
          invoking a binary on a pty whose input and output is
          connected to the invoking terminal. This allows executing
          processes as system services while interactively
          communicating with them via the terminal. Most interestingly
          this is supported across container boundaries. Invoking
          "systemd-run -t /bin/bash" is an alternative to running a
          full login session, the difference being that the former
          will not register a session, nor go through the PAM session
          setup.

        * tmpfiles gained support for a new "v" line type for creating
          btrfs subvolumes. If the underlying file system is a legacy
          file system, this automatically degrades to creating a
          normal directory. Among others /var/lib/machines is now
          created like this at boot, should it be missing.

        * The directory /var/lib/containers/ has been deprecated and
          been replaced by /var/lib/machines. The term "machines" has
          been used in the systemd context as generic term for both
          VMs and containers, and hence appears more appropriate for
          this, as the directory can also contain raw images bootable
          via qemu/kvm.

        * systemd-nspawn when invoked with -M but without --directory=
          or --image= is now capable of searching for the container
          root directory, subvolume or disk image automatically, in
          /var/lib/machines. systemd-nspawn@.service has been updated
          to make use of this, thus allowing it to be used for raw
          disk images, too.

        * A new machines.target unit has been introduced that is
          supposed to group all containers/VMs invoked as services on
          the system. systemd-nspawn@.service has been updated to
          integrate with that.

        * machinectl gained a new "start" command, for invoking a
          container as a service. "machinectl start foo" is mostly
          equivalent to "systemctl start systemd-nspawn@foo.service",
          but handles escaping in a nicer way.

        * systemd-nspawn will now mount most of the cgroupfs tree
          read-only into each container, with the exception of the
          container's own subtree in the name=systemd hierarchy.

        * journald now sets the special FS_NOCOW file flag for its
          journal files. This should improve performance on btrfs, by
          avoiding heavy fragmentation when journald's write-pattern
          is used on COW file systems. It degrades btrfs' data
          integrity guarantees for the files to the same levels as for
          ext3/ext4 however. This should be OK though as journald does
          its own data integrity checks and all its objects are
          checksummed on disk. Also, journald should handle btrfs disk
          full events a lot more gracefully now, by processing SIGBUS
          errors, and not relying on fallocate() anymore.

        * When journald detects that journal files it is writing to
          have been deleted it will immediately start new journal
          files.

        * systemd now provides a way to store file descriptors
          per-service in PID 1. This is useful for daemons to ensure
          that fds they require are not lost during a daemon
          restart. The fds are passed to the daemon on the next
          invocation in the same way socket activation fds are
          passed. This is now used by journald to ensure that the
          various sockets connected to all the system's stdout/stderr
          are not lost when journald is restarted. File descriptors
          may be stored in PID 1 via the sd_pid_notify_with_fds() API,
          an extension to sd_notify(). Note that a limit is enforced
          on the number of fds a service can store in PID 1, and it
          defaults to 0, so that no fds may be stored, unless this is
          explicitly turned on.

        * The default TERM variable to use for units connected to a
          terminal, when no other value is explicitly is set is now
          vt220 rather than vt102. This should be fairly safe still,
          but allows PgUp/PgDn work.

        * The /etc/crypttab option header= as known from Debian is now
          supported.

        * "loginctl user-status" and "loginctl session-status" will
          now show the last 10 lines of log messages of the
          user/session following the status output. Similar,
          "machinectl status" will show the last 10 log lines
          associated with a virtual machine or container
          service. (Note that this is usually not the log messages
          done in the VM/container itself, but simply what the
          container manager logs. For nspawn this includes all console
          output however.)

        * "loginctl session-status" without further argument will now
          show the status of the session of the caller. Similar,
          "lock-session", "unlock-session", "activate",
          "enable-linger", "disable-linger" may now be called without
          session/user parameter in which case they apply to the
          caller's session/user.

        * An X11 session scriptlet is now shipped that uploads
          $DISPLAY and $XAUTHORITY into the environment of the systemd
          --user daemon if a session begins. This should improve
          compatibility with X11 enabled applications run as systemd
          user services.

        * Generators are now subject to masking via /etc and /run, the
          same way as unit files.

        * networkd .network files gained support for configuring
          per-link IPv4/IPv6 packet forwarding as well as IPv4
          masquerading. This is by default turned on for veth links to
          containers, as registered by systemd-nspawn. This means that
          nspawn containers run with --network-veth will now get
          automatic routed access to the host's networks without any
          further configuration or setup, as long as networkd runs on
          the host.

        * systemd-nspawn gained the --port= (-p) switch to expose TCP
          or UDP posts of a container on the host. With this in place
          it is possible to run containers with private veth links
          (--network-veth), and have their functionality exposed on
          the host as if their services were running directly on the
          host.

        * systemd-nspawn's --network-veth switch now gained a short
          version "-n", since with the changes above it is now truly
          useful out-of-the-box. The systemd-nspawn@.service has been
          updated to make use of it too by default.

        * systemd-nspawn will now maintain a per-image R/W lock, to
          ensure that the same image is not started more than once
          writable. (It's OK to run an image multiple times
          simultaneously in read-only mode.)

        * systemd-nspawn's --image= option is now capable of
          dissecting and booting MBR and GPT disk images that contain
          only a single active Linux partition. Previously it
          supported only GPT disk images with proper GPT type
          IDs. This allows running cloud images from major
          distributions directly with systemd-nspawn, without
          modification.

        * In addition to collecting mouse dpi data in the udev
          hardware database, there's now support for collecting angle
          information for mouse scroll wheels. The database is
          supposed to guarantee similar scrolling behavior on mice
          that it knows about. There's also support for collecting
          information about Touchpad types.

        * udev's input_id built-in will now also collect touch screen
          dimension data and attach it to probed devices.

        * /etc/os-release gained support for a Distribution Privacy
          Policy link field.

        * networkd gained support for creating "ipvlan", "gretap",
          "ip6gre", "ip6gretap" and "ip6tnl" network devices.

        * systemd-tmpfiles gained support for "a" lines for setting
          ACLs on files.

        * systemd-nspawn will now mount /tmp in the container to
          tmpfs, automatically.

        * systemd now exposes the memory.usage_in_bytes cgroup
          attribute and shows it for each service in the "systemctl
          status" output, if available.

        * When the user presses Ctrl-Alt-Del more than 7x within 2s an
          immediate reboot is triggered. This useful if shutdown is
          hung and is unable to complete, to expedite the
          operation. Note that this kind of reboot will still unmount
          all file systems, and hence should not result in fsck being
          run on next reboot.

        * A .device unit for an optical block device will now be
          considered active only when a medium is in the drive. Also,
          mount units are now bound to their backing devices thus
          triggering automatic unmounting when devices become
          unavailable. With this in place systemd will now
          automatically unmount left-over mounts when a CD-ROM is
          ejected or a USB stick is yanked from the system.

        * networkd-wait-online now has support for waiting for
          specific interfaces only (with globbing), and for giving up
          after a configurable timeout.

        * networkd now exits when idle. It will be automatically
          restarted as soon as interfaces show up, are removed or
          change state. networkd will stay around as long as there is
          at least one DHCP state machine or similar around, that keep
          it non-idle.

        * networkd may now configure IPv6 link-local addressing in
          addition to IPv4 link-local addressing.

        * The IPv6 "token" for use in SLAAC may now be configured for
          each .network interface in networkd.

        * Routes configured with networkd may now be assigned a scope
          in .network files.

        * networkd's [Match] sections now support globbing and lists
          of multiple space-separated matches per item.

        Contributions from: Alban Crequy, Alin Rauta, Andrey Chaser,
        Bastien Nocera, Bruno Bottazzini, Carlos Garnacho, Carlos
        Morata Castillo, Chris Atkinson, Chris J. Arges, Christian
        Kirbach, Christian Seiler, Christoph Brill, Colin Guthrie,
        Colin Walters, Cristian Rodríguez, Daniele Medri, Daniel Mack,
        Dave Reisner, David Herrmann, Djalal Harouni, Erik Auerswald,
        Filipe Brandenburger, Frank Theile, Gabor Kelemen, Gabriel de
        Perthuis, Harald Hoyer, Hui Wang, Ivan Shapovalov, Jan
        Engelhardt, Jan Synacek, Jay Faulkner, Johannes Hölzl, Jonas
        Ådahl, Jonathan Boulle, Josef Andersson, Kay Sievers, Ken
        Werner, Lennart Poettering, Lucas De Marchi, Lukas Märdian,
        Lukas Nykryn, Lukasz Skalski, Luke Shumaker, Mantas Mikulėnas,
        Manuel Mendez, Marcel Holtmann, Marc Schmitzer, Marko
        Myllynen, Martin Pitt, Maxim Mikityanskiy, Michael Biebl,
        Michael Marineau, Michael Olbrich, Michal Schmidt, Mindaugas
        Baranauskas, Moez Bouhlel, Naveen Kumar, Patrik Flykt, Paul
        Martin, Peter Hutterer, Peter Mattern, Philippe De Swert,
        Piotr Drąg, Rafael Ferreira, Rami Rosen, Robert Milasan, Ronny
        Chevalier, Sangjung Woo, Sebastien Bacher, Sergey Ptashnick,
        Shawn Landden, Stéphane Graber, Susant Sahani, Sylvain
        Plantefève, Thomas Hindoe Paaboel Andersen, Tim JP, Tom
        Gundersen, Topi Miettinen, Torstein Husebø, Umut Tezduyar
        Lindskog, Veres Lajos, Vincent Batts, WaLyong Cho, Wieland
        Hoffmann, Zbigniew Jędrzejewski-Szmek

        — Berlin, 2015-02-16

